Alright so we left the last video with a challenge: to convert a nested for loop into a list comprehension.
So let's go through the solution,
one solution to that.
So we're going to start on line 11, so times
equals left square bracket, or left and right square brackets, in parentheses i comma space
i times j, then a right parentheses, then we want for i in range, parentheses one comma space 11, closing
parentheses, for j in range, parentheses 1 comma space 11.
Then we've got our right closing, right parentheses and closing square bracket. Then on the next line
we can print parentheses times.
So once again that reads pretty much the same as the nested for loops.
We run the program,
and you can see that we're getting a list of tuples, very similar to the, or they should be identical to
the first one you, left to right there.
So obviously, here each tuple is containing the number from 1 to 10, with its product for values from 1
to 10.
Now if we wanted to print the same output as the nested for loops, just unpack the tuple when iterating over
the list.
So let's just do that, so we'll just close down the run window.
We can just copy the output here and then we'll change it a bit.
So I'm going to copy that, and we'll change it.
So it's going to be for x comma space y in, then just a colon on the end.
Then we can print x comma y. As it turns out I'll just delete that extra times there. Alright so lets just
try running that, and you can see we got the same output now than from the original nested for loop example,
the top of the file.
OK, so that's the challenge completed. If you got the same results,
congratulations.
Now you may also have used a comprehension as the expression.
So if I go back and just show you what I mean by that, you may have done it this way: then I'll paste that in line 17, then we'll say times
2 equals, so you might have added two square brackets like we've used previously.
Then add the right square bracket
after the first range,
so basically after here, after the right parentheses on the range, and print times two.
A similar thing as you can see but, the structure's different though if you do it that way but of course the
end result is still correct.
We've got the output that we're,
we've actually got it going through using nested comprehensions.
Now if you want it to have been completely accurate, you should also have swapped i and j around.
So the first loop is for j then the outer loop at the end is for i. Of course as they're both looping through
exactly the same set of values it doesn't make any difference here.
Alright so we've used a list comprehension here, which means it builds up a list containing all the
values.
Now that could use up a lot of memory, especially with very large ranges.
Now if you intend to use the list again, then a list comprehension does make sense.
And in our original solution, we could use the times list as often as necessary in the code.
Now if you just want to iterate over the list as we're doing here, then a generator expression is probably
more suitable than a list comprehension.
Now generator expressions are very similar to write.
We just replace the square brackets with parentheses.
So if I go back and copy lines 14 and 15 again. I'm going to paste them in, see I'll put that up there to be consistent.
So we've got here, the square bracket,
I'm going to change that to a parentheses,
then the second square bracket. Come down to the end here, and replace that with parentheses, and just
run it to confirm it is actually working.
And you can see we've got the same output there.
But the difference here with this code is that it's a generator expression, and it isn't creating the entire
list in memory.
Now just like generators, and we saw those a few videos ago,
generator expressions calculate the values as they're requested. The only value that exists is the one that's
just been returned.
Now bear that in mind and consider using a generator expression rather than a list comprehension,
if you're not going to be using the list more than once.
Now one thing that's currently unclear, is whether performance suffers when you use generator expressions
rather than list comprehensions.
Now Guido van Rossum said that they should both be as fast as each other in the blog post that I've linked to previously.
However that was written quite a while ago and things may well have changed.
And also he was only talking about the CPython implementations of Python.
If you're using a different implementation, things may well be different.
So that says, does performance suffer.
Well I'm not going to tell you. Instead though, what we're going to do is look at how you can find out for yourself.
Now Python has a timeit module in the standard library, and we can use that to compare the performance
of different code snippets, and we'll start working on that in the next video.
But before that, I promised that we'd use a nested comprehension to produce the list of destinations
from an earlier challenge,
that's Challenge 2.
Now what I'm going to do, is go back to that Challenge 2 solution, that was compchallenge2. Alright so lets
go ahead and do that, so actually what I'm going to do is do a file new, Python file,
and we'll call this Challenge 2b, I'll call it compchallenge2b. I'm going to paste in the first part of the code, which
we were aware of before, the locations and exits. Right so lets type in some code here now, so I'm going to type,
so print parentheses nested for loops,
print, let's just do a bit of a header there,
for loc in sorted, parentheses locations colon, exits to destination underscore one, equals left and right square brackets.
Then we want for exit,
xit in exits colon, if loc in exits, left and right square brackets, and xit in those square brackets,
dot values. You've seen a lot of this code before but it's helpful to type this in again, so we can see the list comprehension
shortly, colon then exits
underscore to underscore destination underscore one dot append, then two parentheses,
xit comma space locations, left and right square brackets, xit within that, closing square bracket. Then
we've got two right parentheses, and I've added three there to the append, that should only have been two. Lets fix that up, fixes
that line up, and on the next line then, we go back to our for loop, to the same code level, and we'll print parentheses
locations leading to, left and right curly braces, double quotes dot format, parentheses loc comma, then end
equals, in single quotes a tab character, so that's backslash t parentheses. Then we'll do a print exits to destination
underscore one.
Right, then we'll just do an empty print there.
Alright, so that's the nested for loop.
Now let's look at creating the list comprehension inside a for loop.
So we're going to do a print. print parentheses double quotes list comprehension inside a for loop,
bit of a header there
again, for loc in sorted locations colon, then exits to destination.
This time it's going to be 2, equals left and right square brackets, parentheses xit comma locations, left and right
square brackets, then xit, then our closing square bracket, closing parentheses, then for exit,
xit in exits,
e x i t s, if loc in exits, left and right square brackets, xit dot values parentheses.
Then we've got our closing right square bracket, and then we just do print
locations leading to left and right curly braces, double quotes dot format, then we've got loc comma, then the same end
equals, single quotes and our tab character, backslash t again. Then we're just going to print out 'exits to destination
2', and we'll just do an empty print on line 34.
Right so that's two examples of producing lists of all the locations leading to each of the destinations.
So if we run the program,
I'll just make this a little bit bigger so we can see both examples there, and left to right you can see the output.
So for each destination we get a list of the locations that lead directly to it.
So we're getting six separate lists, which means we're going to need a listed list comprehension if you
want to keep the same sort of structure.
And obviously you can see here when we run this that we've got the same output for both methods.
So again the first one was a nested for loop, the second was a list comprehension inside a for loop.
And importantly remember that we need to put the outer loop at the end of the comprehension.
So our nested comprehension then,
let's just add that, it's going to be as follows:
so I'm going to do that on line 36, we'll start,
that's going to be print, lets do our nested,
print, then a bit of a heading there.
Alright, and so exits to destination 3 equals, lets add that.
So we've done our two examples
above. Lets do the third one, so it's going to be two square brackets, parentheses xit comma then locations,
left and right square brackets, and xit within that, then closing parentheses, for xit in exits,
in e x i t s that is.
The second one,
if loc in exits,
so left and right square brackets, xit dot values parentheses,
oops parentheses is already added, then for loc in sorted locations.
Then we've got our closing parentheses and closing right bracket, and after the values it should've been a square
bracket as well.
Put square bracket, then let's print exits to destination underscore 3, and lets just make that so it fits better.
I'm going to put that here, put the line break so that it goes
to the next line. That's a little bit nicer to see now.
So basically the output when we run it, contains each of the six lists of the previous two code snippets
created.
Now being a nested list, a list containing other lists is not formatting as nicely.
So we can see the six locations, from 0 to 5 in the first list. I'll just move that over, 2, 3, 4, 5, but
then a new list starts, and
you see that it contains location 3, 4 and then 5 and so on, and it goes on to another one.
Basically the one after that is 1, 4 and 5 and the next 2, just scrolling over, only contained location 1 because
the last list has locations 1 and 2, and everything agrees with the output produced using the previous two methods.
Now that said, if you wanted to print it out as prettily as the first two bis of code,
what we can do is use the enumerate function to get the index of each list in the other list.
So lets go about doing that.
So we'll have a print there,
then for index comma space loc in enumerate
then it's going to be parentheses exits to destination 3 colon, and we'll do a print, parentheses locations leading
to, left and right curly braces, dot format parentheses and index within that, comma, and end equals, in single
quotes our tab character, backslash t,
then you could print loc. So we can run that, and you can see we've now got our output
in the correct format. So Python contains a load of useful functions such as
enumerate, and if you weren't aware that it existed you might mess around incrementing an index variable
inside the for loop,
but enumerate takes care of all of that for us.
And if you haven't already, I'd suggest it's worth spending time to become familiar with the builtin functions,
and you can find the documentation list, or find the documentation I should say,
here, and I'll put a link in the resources section of the video.
That's a good place to start.
Now, I'm not suggesting you memorise all these functions.
Just be aware that they exist so that you can refer back here when you need to know how to use them.
There's a lot of very useful functions in the standard library, and we're going to be looking at a few
that are related to comprehensions after the next video.
But for now I'm going to stop this video because it's got quite long, and in the next one we're going
to look at that timeit module that I mentioned previously, to see how these various approaches compare
in terms of performance.
So see you in the next video.